{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20760\viewh16380\viewkind1
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 This file describes the contents of the heart-disease directory.\
\
     1. Hungarian Institute of Cardiology, Budapest (hungarian.data)\
   >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
1. Title: Heart Disease Databases\
\
2. Source Information:\
   (a) Creators:  Hungarian Institute of Cardiology. Budapest: Andras Janosi, M.D.\
   (b) Date: July, 1988\
\
3. Relevant Information:\
     This database contains 14 attributes, \
 \
4. Description of dataset:\
\
-- 1. age: age in years       \
-- 2. sex: sex (1 = male; 0 = female)        \
-- 3. cp: chest pain type\
        -- Value 1: typical angina\
        -- Value 2: atypical angina\
        -- Value 3: non-anginal pain\
        -- Value 4: asymptomatic    \
-- 4. trestbps: resting blood pressure (in mm Hg on admission to the hospital)\
-- 5. chol: serum cholestoral in mg/dl    \
-- 6. fbs: (fasting blood sugar > 120 mg/dl)  (1 = true; 0 = false)  \
-- 7. restecg: resting electrocardiographic results\
        -- Value 0: normal\
        -- Value 1: having ST-T wave abnormality (T wave inversions and/or ST \
                    elevation or depression of > 0.05 mV)\
        -- Value 2: showing probable or definite left ventricular hypertrophy\
                    by Estes' criteria \
-- 8. thalach: maximum heart rate achieved\
-- 9. exang: exercise induced angina (1 = yes; 0 = no)  \
-- 10. oldpeak = ST depression induced by exercise relative to rest\
-- 11. slope: the slope of the peak exercise ST segment\
        -- Value 1: upsloping\
        -- Value 2: flat\
        -- Value 3: downsloping  \
-- 12. ca: number of major vessels (0-3) colored by flourosopy       \
-- 13. thal: 3 = normal; 6 = fixed defect; 7 = reversable defect  \
-- 14. num: diagnosis of heart disease            (target variable)\
        -- Value 0: < 50% diameter narrowing\
        -- Value 1: > 50% diameter narrowing\
\
The "num" field refers to the presence of heart disease\
     in the patient.  It is integer valued from 0 (no presence) to 4.\
     Experiments with the database have concentrated on simply\
     attempting to distinguish presence (values 1,2,3,4) from absence (value\
     0).\
\
\
Missing Attribute Values: Several.  \
Distinguished with value -9.0.\
}